March 10, 1999, sitting in the living room with Jim
Cashion, getting ready to hear his recollections
of life at A&M, both when he was growing up, but also
as a student.
Your parents came to A&M when?
I believe in August of 1926. Let's go back and tell
me a little about them and their experience before
coming here. Okay, well, my dad graduated from
Erskine College in South Carolina and came to
Austin College, I'm not sure if it was his first
job, about 1912.
I have his, an Austin College ring
in 1912. And he was secretary of the YMCA and at one
point athletic director at Austin College until
World War I. And went into the service
I guess under the auspices of the YMCA, I really
don't know for sure, but I think it's sort of like
the USO was in World War II. But he was in France with
the YMCA during World War I, and after the war he He
joined the British YMCA and was in Egypt and Africa
for a little
over a year. My mother was a native of Wills Point,
Texas. And she had friends who lived in Sherman.
And through that connection met my dad just before
World War II, World War I, and they
were married in 1925, I believe, 24 or 25, I'm not
exactly sure, after he came back to Austin College
after the war. After the war? After World War I. Was
he again with the YMCA there at Austin College?
That's when he was athletic director. Did he have
any other duties other than that? I don't think so.
I know he was the general secretary of the YMCA. As
you understand it, in today's terminology, what
services did the YMCA provide at that era on a
campus? Well, you're talking about at A&M? No, at
Austin College. I'm not sure about Austin
College. I'm assuming that it was more or less like
the YMCA program at A&M was after he came down here.
All right. And they come down here in 20... He came
down here in 1925. He came down as the general
secretary of YMCA. Do you know who it was that hired
him? Do you know any of the circumstances that...
No. You don't remember what his pay was or anything
like that? No. I remember one time... Well,
this was just before World War II. And I guess I was
probably in high school because I was interested
in his buying a new car. And I went with him one day to
pick up his paycheck at the fiscal office. It was in
the new administration building. And he couldn't
find a parking place, and so he just double parked
and told me to run in and get his check. And I did, and
I looked at it, and I think it was about maybe $300.
And I thought, oh, my goodness, anybody that's
making that much money ought to be able to buy a car.
This was his monthly check. This was his monthly
check. All right. So I imagine his salary is $3,500
or so. I'm not sure. All right. He came, and the Y
building... that we know today. And as far as you
know, as far as you can describe what the building
contained at the time he got here. Well, the YMCA
building at that time was the nearest thing A&M had
to a student center.
They had a semi-basement, but on the main floor
there was a big lobby. They had ping pong tables.
They had easy chairs. They subscribed to nearly
all the major newspapers in the state that the
students could read. They had a desk in the lobby
there that the students could buy postcards and
stamps and stationery.
And behind the lobby there was a chapel. and the
chapel was used for all sorts of meetings, but the
main group that met there, as I recall, was the
first president of the church, or the eight
emperors that met in the chapel of YMCA. On Sunday
at normal worship hour, I am expressing a bit of
surprise that any specific denomination could
have used it Every Sunday? Every Sunday. And there
was a
union Sunday school made up of several
denominations that met in the old assembly hall
every Sunday morning. Who taught that? Was there
any legendary teacher? My dad was taught for a
while. Caroline Mitchell was one of the teachers.
I can't really remember...
And we met under the stage
in the assembly hall. And then later, we met under
the stage in Guyon Hall. There was a space. You're
saying we. Did you go before you were an A&M
student? Oh, yeah. By the time I was an A&M student,
the Union Sunday School was defunct. Oh, OK.
Probably in elementary school. They gave you a pen
if you attended for a year. The second year, you got
a wreath around the pen. And from then on, you got a
bar for each year. I think I had six or eight bars.
The record was held by a guy named Duke Thornton,
who is currently a member of South Minister
Presbyterian Church in Sugar Land. And I think he
had 14 bars.
Anyway, the YMCA cabinet was made up of students
that were interested in the Y program. As best I can
describe, it was the college version of the Hi-Y
that was in the high schools. In the basement of the
YMCA, there was, at one time, there was a swimming
pool. And it was not a... It was there until they
built the P.L. Downs Natatorium. And can you
relate about what year that might have been to you?
I'm guessing it was about 1936. Okay, so... But the
pool was, it was just a big bathtub. It didn't have a
circuitry system in it. And once a week, they
had... drain it, scrub the walls, and then refill
it. And that was the only time that I ever got to swim
in it. It had been drained because it was over my
head. And I got to play in it until the water got deep
enough that I couldn't stand up and then I had to get
out. So about once a week I got to go swim. About what
dimensions? The pool was... Well, it was the size
of three bowling alleys. Because when they built
the P.L. Dow Junior Natatorium, they covered the
pool over and put three bowling alleys in the area
where the pool had been. In addition to the bowling
alleys, they had pool tables downstairs, there
was a barber shop, and Casey's Confectionary,
which was a privately run soda fountain. Could you
buy sandwiches and burgers? Sandwiches and
burgers and ice cream. Let's see. What that would
be normal things today would not have been so. No
beer. Tobacco? Yeah, cigarettes. Tobacco and
then just soda fountain types of sandwiches. I
don't think they had hamburgers, but they had They
had sandwiches and ice cream, fountain drinks.
And I'm assuming telephones were there if
somebody needed to make a phone call home in that
building. I think there were two or three public
telephones in the lobby of the Y. And to my
knowledge, they were the only phones on the campus
that the students could use to call home. And when
your dad arrived, the building had already been
built, and the Y was a going organization. Do you
remember about the number of staff that he had as a
part of the Y? Well,
Jay Gordon Gay was the assistant secretary.
And then the rest of them, he and Gordon were the
only two people that worked on the live program.
The other people that worked in the building, of
course, they had the secretary and custodians,
but the barbers were, I mean, they were, that was a
private barber. I mean, it was a public barber
shop. And the confectionery was owned by Mr.
Sparks and Mr. Casey. And so, as far as the staff was
concerned, it was just, my dad and Jake Warren
Gates. Describe your dad physically and then
describe his personality and what he believed in,
good things and things that he wouldn't tolerate.
Well, first of all, he was a Presbyterian elder. In
fact, in those days, it was before the the sessions
that rotated so he was an elder and he was as long as i
remember he was an elder on the session of the
president one of the things he was concerned about
as a as a secretary of the ymca was the fact that uh
well in those days the students would come to a m in
september There were no cars, no automobiles. If
they went anywhere, they hitchhiked or they went
on the train or the bus, but primarily they
hitchhiked. But for the most part, they stayed on
the campus from the time they came in September
until probably Thanksgiving. And then they went
home again at Christmas and maybe if they didn't
live too far, at Easter, and then at New Year. And so
they were on the campus for a considerable amount
of time, and well, I guess on the weekends they had
time on their hands, and he was concerned about the
kinds of things that went on in the dormitories,
the gambling, and you know, and
carousing, and of course there weren't any women
around, but he was concerned about the kinds of
things that they had to do on the weekends. And one
of the things that the YMCA did was they sponsored a
free show, a free movie. In fact, the only movies in
College Station were run, the movie was in the
assembly hall and it was run by the YMCA. They had
movies on Tuesday night and Saturday night for the
general public. the students and anybody else
that wanted to go. On Wednesdays and Fridays, they
had what they called,
let me see if I can remember the name. Anyway, they
were there to benefit. The clubs could sponsor a
movie and whatever they could make from it. And on
Sunday, the YMCA had a a movie, they showed a movie
starting at one o'clock on Sunday and it was free
and everybody wanted to go. Would those Sunday
movies be more serious religion related or would
they just be the cheapest thing? Some of them
weren't even talkies, they were silent.
But occasionally they would have one that
everybody, but the place was full every Sunday.
They didn't want anything else to do, so everybody
went to the movie on Sunday, and then after the
movie, they'd play touch football or softball or
whatever else they could find to do. Now, your dad
was not part of the rules enforcement staff. Not
that I know of. Okay. So his was to be a positive
factor. I guess, you know, He did an awful lot of
counseling, I'm sure, and I don't know what his
title might have been, or what level of, you know,
he might have been considered as.
He did a lot of counseling with students that were
homesick and having problems, When he came, do you
remember his talking about who the key leaders of
A&M were in his early years? Of course, I guess Dr.
Walton was the president. Okay. No, I don't
remember. Do you remember his ever describing Dr.
Walton? No, except we lived across the street from
him, you know. Oh, so you, oh, all right, well then
you describe him. Well, Dr. Walton lived in the big
house.
Well, first of all, there was the YMCA, and there
was a street, and I can't name the name of it, that
was right in front of the YMCA, on one corner there.
It intersected with the main entrance from the
railroad station. Military Walk. No, Military
Walk was behind the line. Oh, oh, oh, that's right,
that's right, that's right. And this was... It
might have been Houston Street. But at the
intersection of the main entrance, the
boulevard, from the railroad station to the YMCA,
there was the Bugle
Stand. And that street ran, relatively speaking,
ran north to the North Gate. And at the end of the
first block, beyond the YMCA, there was a cross
street and on that corner was the President's
home. And it's across the street from what's now
the All Faith Chapel. Beyond the President's home
was the hospital. And Dr. Marsh lived, the college
physician lived on the corner there and we lived
next door to him. So we were just a short block from
the president's office. Now, there were many,
many faculty and staff that lived on campus.
Most of them at one time. As far as you know, was that
provided free of charge, or was there a stipend? I
think there was a very small rent charge. However,
I think that probably some faculty members were
provided with it. I don't know which ones. It never
occurred to me to even wonder if my folks ever paid
rent. I know that in about 1939, when they asked us
to move off the campus, my dad bought the house that
we lived in for less than $500 and had it moved from
the campus down to south of what's now Bush Drive
and they set it down there and remodeled it and we
lived in it until my dad died and we never sold it.
1939. That was 1939. What street? We lived at the
corner of Timber and Anna, Homer Covington, I mean
Homer, Homer Adams lives there now. He bought the
house from my mother. He still lives there. Back to
your dad. Describe him physically and by
personality the way a reporter or a historian
might describe him. Well, he was about 5'10",
probably weighed 190. He had a ruddy complexion
and a high forehead.
He had been an athlete at one time. He was a pitcher
and he had an opportunity to play
in the Texas league, but turned it down. In fact, he
played semi-pro baseball and the last game he
pitched was in Oklahoma City, which is not here.
But who is, again, I don't have the slightest idea.
He grew up in South Carolina? North Carolina.
Where? At Davidson, North Carolina. Near
Davidson, Huntersville is the name of it. It was
committed right outside of Charlotte. And his
younger brother, Jay, pitched for the Washington
Synod. I
ought to tell you who some of the players were, but
this was about in the 1920s, I
think. Easygoing? Easygoing.
He enjoyed the students. At one time, he probably
could call most of the students by their first
name. All right. And so your mother and dad come
down here. You said your mom grew up in Texas. They
met at Austin College. Where did they live when
they first got? Then that house you mentioned?
Right. They moved it in directly to that house.
They lived in Sherman for a little while before,
and I don't know a thing about their deal up there,
but they came down here and moved into the house
that we lived in until they asked us to move off the
campus. All right, as your memory begins,
describe the campus physically. What buildings
were where?
Well, we've talked about the YMCA. The
dormitories that I remember on campus early until
they built what's now the core dorms was Walton
Hall and there were two small apartment style
dormitories that were for graduate students. One
was across from what's now the campus theater
across University Drive on the campus side and the
other one was right at the end of Walton Hall that
they had to tear down when they built those dorms
over there. Of course there were several houses
that faculty members lived in. Mitchell Hall,
Ross Hall, along Military Walk there were, let's
see there must have been one, two, three, four,
five dorms that I remember, Hart Hall,
I can't think of names on that. Between Hart, as you
go toward the Savisa Hall, there was a dorm right
next to Hart Hall, and then Ross Hall that was later
the Common Lands Office, and
two more dorms. And then there was the Exchange
Store, B and C unit facility, the building and
college utilities that had warehouses and
offices and so on.
So there was very little south of Guyon Hall. There
were a few residences south of Guyon Hall. But no
dormitories, no classroom buildings. south of
guyon and or south of the drill field right of
course caulfield and the field house were over
there and there was nothing but uh fault but the a.m
farms west of what's now wilburville that was
highway six uh the academic building was there i
think the library
And then I believe in 1936 they built the new Texas
6, which is now Texas Avenue. And when they built
it, they had to turn the university around. And so
they built the new administration building. It
was the eastmost building. I guess it still is. And
you start first grade what year? I started first
grade, well, let's see, it must have been about
1933. Right, and the school that you attended,
what did you all call it? A.M. Consolidated. And it
was located where? It was located... where Dorm 2
is right now. I don't know what the name of that dorm
is, but it's in the core area. They tore that old
school building down when they built the core
dorms, and the northwestmost
dorm is what we call Dorm 2, and that was almost
exactly where the elementary school was. There
was an old building, Pfeiffer Hall, that was at the
south entrance to the academic building that the
college loaned or rented or gave to the school
district for the high school. That was where the
grades eight through 11 went to school. About how
many were in the first grade? That'll tell us about
how big the enrollment. Well, I think the grades
averaged about 25 to 30. I know my graduating class
after the 11th grade, there were 24 of us. Oh,
really? Now, what year was that? That was in 1944.
And everything, all of A&M Consolidated School
instruction was on campus until you were a fourth
grader or something like that, fourth or fifth, 36
or seven? We moved off the campus. I was in the
seventh grade. Seventh grade. And they built the
schools down there off of, Yeah, what used to be
Jersey. Used to be Jersey Street, right. And in
general, who were the students in this
A&M-Saudade school district? Well, for the most
part, they were the children of faculty members.
But they later, I guess there was a school at Peach
Creek, and there was a school at Wilburn at one
time, and at Milliken. And at some point, And I'm
not sure exactly when it was. They combined all
those schools, and that's where it consolidated
as a thing. Right. But when you were in elementary
school, those youngsters from out in the country
were still going to those country schools. Well,
at some point, I don't remember when they combined
us. But for the most part, I think the ones that I
started first grade with graduated. the ones that
didn't quit or something like that. Because there
wasn't much moving around. People, if they were in
the first grade, their parents generally stayed
here until they... So you're born in Brazos
County. Were you born at Old St. Joseph Hospital?
No, I was born in my house on the campus. Right
across from the hospital. Who was the doctor that
came? Dr. J.E. Marsh Sr. Jack Marsh Sr. So the
campus physician came... He was the college
doctor, I mean the town doctor. There were two or
three other doctors, Dr. Andre, I remember, and
I'm sure there's some others I can't name, but Dr.
Marsh was the only one I knew, and we lived across
the street from the hospital, and there were There
were two nurses, Mom Clegg Horn and Miss Vaughn,
Earline Vaughn, lived in the hospital. And they
were the permanent staff of the hospital. From
time to time, there'd be other nurses if there was a
flu epidemic or something. But Red and I, if we'd
get a splinter or for whatever reason, If we needed
his medical attention, we'd go to the hospital,
and Mom would take care of us. One time, we were
playing basketball while we were in the Y Chapel.
They had folded chairs, and the chairs were all
folded up, and Red and I were in the chapel playing
basketball, and I threw the ball to him. He was
standing next to the wall, and it went through his
hands and hit him in the head, and knocked his head
back against the brick, and cut a gash in his head.
And of course he was bleeding like everything and
it scared us. So we just went straight to the
hospital and put a couple stitches in his head and
sent us home. In fact, Red and I got going to the
hospital in the morning, going to the kitchen and
the cook was named Collie. And he would give us
something. He always gave us a glass of grape
juice. And it got so bad that we weren't eating when
we got home. And my mother couldn't figure out what
was the matter with us until she found out that we
were eating bitter at the hospital before we'd
come home. But not the Marsh. Our house was between
the hospital and the Marsh's house. He'd walk
through our yard, you know, it was just a hundred
yards, and he'd walk through our yard. He always
kept bird dogs and horses. Who were your playmates
other than your brother? Jack Marsh and his sister
Louise. Louise was my age. Jack was about three
years older. To give you some idea how things were,
One day Jack, I guess we were probably, I was
probably fifth or sixth grade, something like
that. Jack says, my dad's going to take out a guy's
appendix, you want to watch? So I said, yeah. So we
went over to the hospital and sat in the window of
the operating room while Dr. Marsh took a guy's
appendix out.